isn't it nice to know that Mother Nature
can have her way with the Oregon
outdoors this time of year and treat us
to what we enjoy the most about spring
clear skies and warm sunshine hi there
I'm grant Mikami your host for travel
Oregon's grants getaways and this week
we take advantage of perfect conditions
and enjoy some seasonal change that's
underway it's a getaway that's actually
three destinations for the price of one
tank of gas come on along as we see and
learn more about Oregon's natural bursts
of color
Nick Cavinder calls Portland's crystal
springs rhododendron garden the city's
best kept secret I'm constantly amazed
at the number of people I run into who
are plant people who don't know Crystal
Springs even exists the garden is at its
prime right now a real riot of color has
exploded across nine plus acres fed by
natural springs that you can see
bubbling up out of the ground the garden
is surrounded by water something like
5,000 plants in this garden and there
are all shades of colors in all sizes of
plants and some of the foliage forms are
just unbelievable the garden opened in
1950 through a partnership between the
city man the Portland chapter of the
American rhododendron Society it is a
must-see for out-of-towners and anyone
who calls Portland Hole how do I learn
about what's appropriate in my garden
can I do that here well certainly take a
look at our landscape and see how
smaller things are fit in where else can
you find a hundred and seventy varieties
of birds eighty varieties of trees we
have all kinds of herbaceous perennials
bulbs ferns huge variety of plant
material in this garden getaway garden
number two as Eugene's oldest city park
Hendrix Park it sprawls across nearly 80
acres and within that 15 acres are
dedicated to roadies and azaleas
rhododendron and
society got approval from City Council
to plants a rhododendron garden up here
some of these are the original
rhododendrons a lot of these are just
over 50 year old plants a small army and
volunteer friends provide the labor
force to keep the park in tip-top shape
Emily Ani says many rare and gorgeous
specimens are at their finest through
May this is the Sherwood's orchid it is
an evergreen Azalea that we have in
bloom right now we have the Queen Mary
and behind her King George
both of these either scented
rhododendrons that smells so good right
now there are also some of the largest
flowers they smell like candy
they smell like bubblegum candy just
about at the height of their bloom we
have a mix of native and horticultural
varieties of plants we have some white
bleeding hearts right here rhododendrons
azaleas camellias a lot of variety and
diversity
finally my all-day rody round about
wraps up at garden number three said in
the best AG landscape of Marion County
near shampoo e state park it's a garden
where the roots are all in the family
we enjoyed growing up here of course but
it's become really quite magnificent
over the years it's something to it as a
legacy yeah for our parents and
something to be shared with them the
Cecil and Molly Smith garden was an all
family affair when the first plantings
went in the ground more than six decades
ago a time when everyone pitched in
including brothers Al and Sid Smith we
helped maintain the trails we did some
weeding and since I was the tallest
person in the family I got to do the
deadheading that is picking the old
flowers off the plants because I could
reach the highest Cecil Smith was a
farmer an avid gardener who collected
seeds and pollen from Europe Japan and
even China he was famous for the hybrid
roadies he created and this was the
Cecil Smith hybrid the signature
rhododendron of the garden his garden
was purchased by the Portland chapter of
the American rhododendron Society in 83
it offers you more than five
hundred different plants to admire
everyone has a favorite in this woodland
garden that's open to the public on
weekends like this beauty called cameo
it's a really big lovely one that blooms
very nicely and it opens up to a yellow
peachy orange and then it ends up with a
creamy yellow mostly that it's a
woodland garden rather than a formal
garden and you're going under large
trees Rody's as AEA's he very much
wanted the plant to look good all year
round
Allen Sid Smith agree the winding trails
invite you along you can't quite see
what's around the next bend until you
get to the next bend a soul-satisfying
way to round out a day's adventure it's
here to be shared and here's an outdoor
tip of the week
to better enjoy the Crystal Springs
rhododendron garden in Portland be sure
to purchase one of these walking tour
guides it shows off the features of the
park and also explains more about the
plants that you're looking at we have
all the details directions and the
contact information for this week's
segment right here on the travel Oregon
website so be sure to check it out until
next week do get out here and explore
the great oregon outdoors let travel
oregon be your guide travel Oregon I'm
grandma Colby